the evidence is undeniable cancer
patients can use nutrition safe
supplements and non-toxic medications to
block of fuel sources that starve cancer
the community of researchers and
clinical doctors pointing to metabolic
treatments as the path to eradicate
cancer is quickly growing one of the
loudest Advocates is Dr Thomas CED
thousands of studies help uncovered what
cancer cells use to grow and spread this
video simplifies the existing scientific
and clinical evidence so you can walk
away understanding the preferred fuels
and Pathways of common cancer types
nutritional approaches that starve
cancer cells and which supplements and
off Lael medications have been shown to
safely block cancer cell fuel sources I
am so excited to share this information
with
you hello I am Alina Ivanova the medical
director at personalized
medicine the limitations of conventional
cancer therapies specifically cancers
that are resistant to chemotherapy or
radiotherapy have prompted the
development of strategies aimed at
targeting Cancer's biological process
over the last 20 years we have seen a
wave of evidence from leading cancer
researchers that ident identify
preferred fuel sources and intake
Pathways that can be targeted if enough
pathways are blocked the cancer cells
can be starved this can effectively
restrict growth and contribute to cancer
cell death using nutrition supplements
and medications to starve cancer is
referred to as a metabolic cancer
therapy because the treatment aims to
disrupt the cancer cell's ability to
metabolize substances into necessary
resources for
survival while it is impossible to block
off every source of fuel cancer uses to
grow top researchers over the last few
decade have shown us that targeting
several critical areas can be harmful to
most cancer cells generally speaking the
three key areas are glucose amino acids
and fatty acids we will provide a brief
overview of the research behind each
fuel source and the evidence of how
nutrition supplements and medication can
be used to disrupt cancer cells from
using these fuel sources you can find
more information about specific
components of metabolic cancer therapy
at our personalized medicine Channel as
with any medical intervention you should
discuss these treatments with a licensed
medical provider before tempting them
now the number one fuel source of almost
all cancer cells is glucose also called
blood sugar glucose is mostly created
from carbohydrates but can also be
produced from protein 90 years ago OT
warberg won the Nobel Prize for his
research and discoveries into the
metabolism of tumors most notably he
observed that cancer cells typically
have much higher glucose consumption
rates than normal cells fast forward to
today and leave in researchers are
convinced most cancers are addicted to
insulin and sugar Dr Lewis kentley of
Harvard Medical School has received many
prestigious accolades for his
breakthrough Research into cancer
metabolis after 40 Years of research Dr
kentley has stated the evidence really
suggests that if you have cancer the
sugar you're eating may be making it
grow
faster how much glucose does cancer need
well the answer is a lot cancer cells
obtain glucose 200 times more than
normal cells they need this massive
amount of glucose because cancer cells
tend to rely on using a less efficient
method to convert glucose into energy
this method is called glycolysis many
Studies have found that glycolysis
promotes tumor growth cancer spread and
chemo resistance as well as inhibiting
the naturally occurring programmed cell
death of tumor cells however research
has shown that cancers over Reliance on
glucose can be used against it cancers
that primarily rely on glucose for fuel
are like the old gas gozler cars that
our grandparents drove normal cells also
use glucose to produce fuel but they are
like our modern hybrid cars normal cells
need far less glucose to function but
when necessary they can completely
switch away from using glucose to use a
backup up energy source called
ketones you may have heard of friends
and family using a ketogenic diet when
trying to lose weight but the fact is
this is not a new diet fat it has been
used as an effective medical treatment
since the 1920s for those unfamiliar
ketogenic diet substantially reduces
intake of foods with
carbohydrates which is the primary
macronutrient converted into glucose in
the
bloodstream significant evidence over
the last 20 years shows keto diets have
an anti-cancer effect when used against
cancers that prefer glucose as a fuel
source in addition to nutritional
modifications metabolic cancer therapy
utilizes nutrient supplements natural
substances and medications to prevent
cancer cells from using glucose to grow
and spread thousands of Medical Art
articles have have been written
explaining how treatments can inhibit
cancer cell glucose Transporters insulin
receptors prevent glycolisis and other
mechanisms used to convert glucose into
energy treatments deployed to prevent
cancer cells from using glucose include
natural substances like catin berberin
curcumin chenyin resveratol and high
doses of Vitamin C as well as
medications metformin doxycycline and St
P it's important to note that using any
of these medications mentioned for
complimentary cancer treatment is
considered off label use please check
out our channel to view other videos
that go into more detail about these and
other treatments that inhibit use of
glucose by cancer
cells next up are amino acids amino
acids are derived from protein and are a
key resource to normal cell function
however many cancer types have an
unregulated addiction to amino acids
cancer cells greedily uptake certain
amino acids in high volume to support
their energy requirements expand locally
and to distant sides as well as prevent
the body's immune system from
eliminating cancer cells 20 amino acids
can be found in the human body but
studies show several are considered key
resources for cancer cells here are here
are five examples Dr Thomas C has
classified glutamine utilization as The
Missing Link in the metabolic theory of
cancer there is no doubting its
importance to cancer glutamine is the
second most utilized nutrient by cancer
cells and is an essential fuel source
for
proliferation it's been observed that
cancer cells use glutamine as an energy
source enable replicative immortality
resist programmed cell death and support
Invasion into neighboring tissues
unfortunately it is not possible and
would be unhealthy to try to eliminate
glutamine from your diet entirely
however there are Therapeutics aimed at
disrupting cancer cell's ability to
uptake and metabolize
glutamine arginine is another critical
amino acid for cancer cells it is used
to help proliferation through
progressing the cell cycle repair cell
damage as well as well as expanding
locally and to distant sides also called
metastasis
accumulating evidence suggests that some
cancer cells are unable to synthesize
sufficient Arginine and become dependent
on using Arginine collected from the
bloodstream and other external sources
Cancer's over Reliance on Arginine makes
this an exciting Target many studies
ongoing critical trials have documented
that depriving certain cancer types of
arginine can help overcome resistance to
standard cancer therapies and as well as
restrict migrations stop cell cycle and
induce cancer cell death it is widely
documented that cancer cells also rely
on amino acids asparagin methionine and
Branch chain amino acids Lucine isoline
and veine multiple treatment methods
have been attempted to restrict uptake
and use of these nutrients by cancer
cells many clinical trials are underway
to identify compounds that effectively
prevent cancer cells from using amino
acids
however metformin an off-patent and
inexpensive medication has shown the
ability to impair cancer cells ability
to use glutamine additionally natural
substances like aigal aaen Gallade a
formal green tea extract also known as
egcg risol berberine and canavanine have
been shown to prevent cancer cells from
using amino acids lastly nutrition
addtional restriction that is avoiding
eating certain foods rich in amino acids
can be used to prevent cancer cells from
accessing some types of amino acids now
finally we get to fatty acids their role
in fueling cancer has been largely
shrouded in mystery until recent
improvements in lipidomics technology
has enabled a deeper understanding of
lipid metabolism in cancer today many
Studies have revealed that disordered
fatty acids can regulate tumor cell
proliferation metastasis and Drug
resistance cancer uses fatty acids in
numerous ways for example cancer
mitochondria can metabolize fatty acids
as a fuel source to support growth
cancer cells adjust fatty acid levels
intracellularly to resist cell death
caused by oxidative stress and cancer
can use fatty acids to evade the immune
systems attack cancer cells have the
flexibility to use fatty acids AIDS
generated from within the cell and
intake the molecule from its local
environment but experts see ways to
create fatty acid level imbalances that
limit the benefit cancer cells obtain
from these molecules again nutrition is
used to attack Cancer's vulnerabilities
for instance the research strongly
suggests those with cancer should limit
intake of foods high in monosaturated
fatty acids and omega-6 fatty acids
because they have have been shown to
promote tumor growth and induce liver
metastasis furthermore studies show
there is a benefit in increasing intake
of foods and supplements rich in omega-3
polyunsaturated fat as this has been
shown to reduce cancer related symptoms
ketogenic diet a low carb and high fat
diet and calorie restricted diets have
all shown an ability to significantly
resist tumor growth it is worth noting
these diets are considered most
effective when the recommendation is
personalized based on the patients's age
sex and health status we have ample
evidence that supplements and medication
further disrupt Cancer's ability to use
fatty acids berberin has been shown to
prevent cancer cells from generating
fatty acids and block their ability to
pull them in from outside of the cell
meanwhile in take of EPA and DHA omega-3
fatty acids can potentially create an
imbalance within the cancer cell making
them vulnerable to oxidative stress from
treatments like chemotherapy and high
does vitamin C again myth formin and
statins show they can play a role to
inhibit this fuel source as well studies
observed metformin decreases cancer
cells from synthesizing fatty acids
while statins reduce the amount of fatty
acids that are available for cancer
cells to import now to wrap up cancer
primarily uses three resources to grow
spread and protect itself against attack
those being glucose amino acids and
fatty acids the recurring theme
throughout this video is that several of
label medications and nutrients have an
enormous amount of scientific evidence
showing that they have the ability to
help reduce the ill effects of cancer
prevent metastasis reduce tumor size
improve efficacy of standard treatments
like chemo and radiation as well as
trigger cancer cell death since these
treatments are off patent or cannot be
patented there is no Financial incentive
to get them FDA approved as a cancer
treatment this means their use for
cancer patients would likely be
considered off label however the great
news is since they are not patented they
are very inexpensive to obtain
nevertheless it is imperative that you
speak with a licensed medical provider
prior to beginning any medical treatment
we covered a lot of information today
about metabolic treatments that fight
back against cancer if you would like to
learn more about supplements medications
and nutritional approaches that have
been shown to help starve cancer you can
visit our channel to view additional
videos if you are interested in speaking
with a licensed medical provider to
discuss these treatments we welcome you
to schedule a call by accessing the link
in the description as always check out
the description to find links to the
referenced articles and other resources
that could be helpful we hope you found
this information useful if so please
like the video and choose to share it
with others that can benefit we thank
you for watching our video and we wish
you the best of health stay strong and
informed
[Music]